Our ticket service is now in a really, really good place.
We do have to go back into the ticket service in just a little bit and add in some stuff to handle concurrency
and a couple of other events.
Right now, we can kind of leave it in our dust, so we're going to start to move on to our orders service.
Now, I want you to recall that this order service is all about creating an order and then eventually
updating it and paying for it as well.
So if we take a look at the UI or the original mockups over here, we've got one screen where we're
going to list out all the different tickets.
A user is going to click on a ticket in order to purchase it.
They'll be taken to a page to purchase the ticket.
The click on that button and then we'll take the user to yet another page where we tell them that you
have 30 seconds or so to purchase this ticket.
So this order service is all about keeping track of who is attempting to purchase the ticket at any
given time.
It's also going to have the information that's going to lock down a ticket and not allow anyone else
to purchase it and then eventually expire as well.
So in total, we're going to have a couple of different pieces of data inside this new order service.
Let's first focus on just the order service itself.
Inside the order service.
We're going to have a type of record called an Order.
Inside of that order, we're going to store a user ID property that's going to be the user who is trying
to purchase a ticket.
We're going to have a status property and that's going to describe the current status of the order.
So whether it has expired, whether it has been paid or whether it is awaiting payment.
We'll also make sure it has an expires at property.
This is going to be essentially a time stamp that says what time this order expires at.
So it's going to essentially power that part of the UI right there.
Once the expires, time passes.
The ticket will then become unlocked and someone else will be able to purchase it.
The order also needs to know what ticket is actually trying to lock down and the price of it as well.
So rather than storing down or storing some ticket information directly inside the order, we're going
to instead have the order service replicate information over from the ticket service.
So inside the order service, we will also have a collection of tickets.
And in this collection, we're going to store only the title, The Price and the version of the Ticket.
So the order is going to store the ticket ID or the ticket that is trying to lock down access to and
through that ticket ID.
We will know how much a user has to pay in order to purchase this order or complete the order because
we're going to be able to look up a very particular ticket.
Look at that things price.
And that's going to tell us how much the user needs to pay.
So because we are trying to replicate this ticket data over to the order service, that means the Order
Service needs to listen to two kinds of events.
It's going to listen for a ticket created event coming from the ticket service and a ticket updated
event as well.
Now, you'll notice on here, I've got this version property on the ticket.
You might recall that when we had been discussing concurrency issues with Nats streaming server, we
said that one way to solve that problem of events going out of order was to make use of some kind of
version flag.
So just a very quick reminder here.
If our ticket service emits a series of events all about one kind of ticket being updated, so in this
case, ticket with the ABC, we're going to first update its price to ten, 20 and 30.
We always kind of assume that these events might flow into our order, service or other services in
a very particular order.
But as we saw when we were talking about that streaming server, it is entirely possible that these
events will end up going over to our order service in a completely jumbled order.
So we really can't rely upon the order of events coming in to our order service correctly, and that's
why we discussed that version properly.
So inside the order service inside of our tickets collection, we're going to store the version of the
ticket.
And this version right here is going to be a plane number that describes exactly what version of ticket
this is.
Every time we make a change to some attributes on the ticket itself, we're going to update that version
number inside the ticket service.
The ticket service will then emit an event.
And inside that event we will print out that version number.
Then inside of our order service, when we receive these events, we're going to reference that version
number to make sure that we are processing these events in the correct order.
We're not going to worry too much about this version stuff just yet until we start to get a lot of other
stuff put together inside of our order service.
So if you don't remember anything about that version number because we only discussed it in like one
or two videos, we never actually coded it in or anything like that.
If you don't recall it at all, totally fine.
We're going to have a reminder discussion about how all that stuff works in a little bit.
Okay.
So that is the order service.
Long story short, it's going to have orders.
It's going to have replication of the ticket data.
It's going to have to listen to events from the ticket service.
And it's also going to emit a couple of events of its own that we'll discuss in due time.
But right now, we're going to get started on the very basics of the order service, which means installing
dependencies, creating a Kubernetes deployment file, adding in routing rules and all that kind of
stuff.
So let's take a pause right here and get started on creating this new service in just a moment.